you're riding the bus to your new
friend's house you've never been to that
part of the city
and you don't really know the area you
get off the bus
and you've got to walk a block as you
walk
something sends a shiver down your spine
uh-oh
seems like it's a stray dog of course
dogs are people's best friends
but sometimes even they can pose a
serious danger
joggers runners and bikers may trigger
the dog by their motions
so walking really fast or running to
escape from the dogs
is something you should never do first
any dog is faster than you are even the
tiniest chihuahua can accelerate to 15
miles per hour
about the average human running speed
but bigger dogs
run at twice that pace while greyhounds
can be faster than some cars
running at 45 miles per hour i just hope
they don't get speed limit fines
so you become attractive to a dog if
you're riding a bike or even a
skateboard
if you stop the animal might just lose
interest in you
don't try to move faster a dog can
easily catch up with you
next always avoid direct eye contact
you need to stand a bit sideways this
way you're a narrower target for the dog
still always keep the dog in your
peripheral vision
also you need to distract the dog's
attention somehow
it's probably a good idea to always have
something that can be used for this
purpose
it can be a sweatshirt tied around your
waist you can pull it off quickly
and throw it to distract the dog if you
go jogging
and you know that there might be stray
dogs take a stuffed dog toy with you
in case of emergency even throwing a
shoe can be a good idea
but walking home barefooted doesn't
sound like a nice experience
if the worst is inevitable make sure to
protect your face
throat and chest to protect your fingers
keep your hands and fists it may sound
strange
but there's actually the best place to
be bitten it's the forearm
if you're bitten don't pull away it'll
just make things worse
if you walk with your small pet take it
in your arms to protect it from a stray
dog
most stray dogs are afraid of humans but
you can show them your intentions are
nothing but peaceful
if you yawn lick your lips and keep
sideways to the dog
the animal feels calmer if you let that
dog approach you and take a sniff
that's cool just don't raise your hands
while they're sniffing
they don't expect it and might get
surprised and
unfortunately bite ouch
finally a dog may simply be lost and
missing its beloved human
if you see stray dogs always report them
because the owners are surely looking
for their fluffy friends
a friendly looking animal may trick you
into thinking you can pet them
don't touch unfamiliar animals no matter
how sweet they are
if you see the animal as kind of
aggressive stay away
but don't run if you feel like you've
got to escape
do that slowly with no sudden moves
raccoons aren't domesticated and even
though some people claim it's possible
to tame them
it's only partially true first
raccoons don't want to mess with those
who are significantly larger
so try to appear as sturdy as possible
if you meet one in the wild
stand up open your chest wave your arms
these simple steps might be enough to
keep the raccoon away
but if it's still approaching you spray
some water on them
yeah they like washing things but if
someone sprays water on you
it's a bit unpleasant the good thing is
that it's totally safe for both the
animal
and you if you live in a raccoon area
make sure you keep windows and doors
closed all the time
they like getting into houses looking
for some yummy human food
in case you see this unexpected guest in
a mask that you didn't actually invite
just stay calm the best thing to do is
to leave the exit door or the pet door
open
close the doors to all the other rooms
and let the animal find the way out
on its own in case the guests just won't
leave
you might want to help you can show the
raccoon its way with a broom
gently directing the animal out of your
house but make sure you don't corner the
animal
or the raccoon might want to defend
itself
a raccoon never wants to pay you a visit
if you've got nothing to offer
don't feed them the more food you give
them the more raccoons will come to see
you
they must hear it on the grapevine that
there's some human giving free food to
raccoons
if you have pets who like to hang out in
the yard and you leave them food
don't forget to clean up after your pets
finish the meal
and never leave some food for later it
may attract raccoons
and they don't really get on well with
dogs
never leave trash outside surprisingly
raccoons just love it clean up the yard
after you've finished your barbecue
food scraps are super attractive for
these animals
if you've ever shared an apartment there
must have been a housemate you wanted to
evict
bang bang did you hear that it sounds
way heavier than rain
and even hail those are possum paws that
make all this noise
first thing you want to do is cut the
access to the roof
since these animals just want to hide
somewhere safe you can buy or
build boxes for them and leave those
boxes in your garden
it may be even more comfy for opossums
than the roof
if they still hang out on top of your
house just make sure there are no holes
and gaps
so they do it safely these guys are
harmless for humans and pets
they're definitely way more afraid of
you than you are of them
and they kind of faint when they find
the situation dangerous
they hardly ever attack anyone and they
might do that only to protect their
young
coyotes can be found almost everywhere
in north america
so chances are you're going to meet them
one day especially if you live somewhere
around california
these fox-like animals are usually a bit
afraid of humans
but if people feed them they start
losing that fear and might start
invading in cities
if you leave your pet food or even
garbage unattended
you actually feed coyotes because these
delicacies
attract them a lot if you see a coyote
in the wild
don't run away if it's approaching you
it's better to throw something in its
direction
just to make it run away be especially
careful
in may when they need to protect their
cubs a can with rocks inside may come in
handy
if you shake it it'll be a sort of diy
noise maker
when you're out walking just carry it
with you in case you need to frighten
some wild animal away
also a flashlight is another good
repellent for coyotes
snakes and especially rattlesnakes like
it when there's plenty of space
so if you meet a rattlesnake one day
stay at a distance of at least five feet
away from it
never try to attack it if you do so the
snake will get mad at you
and will definitely bite you the good
thing about rattlesnakes
is that you can actually hear them
rattle so you can locate where this
sound comes from
don't step any closer until you
understand where the snake's hiding
otherwise you risk stepping right on it
never throw anything at snakes
because they will definitely strike back
you probably didn't expect this one but
adorable fluffy cats
may be super dangerous if they're feral
stray cats get together in gangs
and sometimes attack not only those cats
who live with humans
but even humans themselves there are
several
signs that can help you understand cat's
language
if the animal is frightened it hisses
growls and may even spit at you
their eyes aren't dilated their fur is
quite relaxed
and they keep their head up straight if
the cat's aggressive
its fur is on end and its ears are back
the eyes get dilated and instead of
hissing the animal
howls to calm the cat down
speak in a low soothing voice a cat
might want to sniff you too
just like dogs do so don't be afraid to
let the animal do that
don't touch the cat because there are a
lot of germs on their claws
and you don't want to get a scratch